documentation/itslive_mosaic_downloader_documentation.md, before:

[&larr; Back to ITS\_LIVE main page](../README.md)

# `itslive_mosaic_downloader` documentation
The `itslive_mosaic_downloader` function downloads all of the annual mosaics for a specified region.

## Syntax

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader(region)
itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., year=years)
itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., path=targetPath)
```

## Description 

`itslive_mosaic_downloader(region)` downloads the climatology mosaic for a specified region. The region must be a number in the range of 1 to 19, where 1 is Alaska and 19 is Antarctica. For a map of ITS\_LIVE regions, type [`itslive_regions`](itslive_regions_documentation.md). 

`itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., year=years)` specifies the year(s) of data to download. If the year is not specified, the 0000 climatology mosaic is downloaded. 

`itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., path=targetPath)` specifies a target directory for the data. If the path is not specified, the current working directory is used. 

## Example 1
Download the summary mosaic for Greenland: 

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader(5)
```

## Example 2 
Download the Greenland mosaics for the years 1985 to 1990: 

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader(5, year=1985:1990) 
```

## Example 3
Download mosaics for Europe and Southern Andes and specify directory:

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader([11 17], path='/Users/cgreene/Documents/data/ITS_LIVE') 
```

## Tip
To explore what data are available, check out [https://its-live-data.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html](https://its-live-data.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html).  

# Author Info
The MATLAB functions in this repo and this documentation were written by Chad A. Greene of NASA/JPL. [The NASA MEaSUREs ITS\_LIVE project](https://its-live.jpl.nasa.gov/) is by Alex S. Gardner and the ITS\_LIVE team.

Commit message:

citations
Adding citation information for the EGUSphere preprint.

documentation/itslive_mosaic_downloader_documentation.md, after:

[&larr; Back to ITS\_LIVE main page](../README.md)

# `itslive_mosaic_downloader` documentation
The `itslive_mosaic_downloader` function downloads all of the annual mosaics for a specified region.

## Syntax

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader(region)
itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., year=years)
itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., path=targetPath)
```

## Description 

`itslive_mosaic_downloader(region)` downloads the climatology mosaic for a specified region. The region must be a number in the range of 1 to 19, where 1 is Alaska and 19 is Antarctica. For a map of ITS\_LIVE regions, type [`itslive_regions`](itslive_regions_documentation.md). 

`itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., year=years)` specifies the year(s) of data to download. If the year is not specified, the 0000 climatology mosaic is downloaded. 

`itslive_mosaic_downloader(..., path=targetPath)` specifies a target directory for the data. If the path is not specified, the current working directory is used. 

## Example 1
Download the summary mosaic for Greenland: 

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader(5)
```

## Example 2 
Download the Greenland mosaics for the years 1985 to 1990: 

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader(5, year=1985:1990) 
```

## Example 3
Download mosaics for Europe and Southern Andes and specify directory:

```matlab
itslive_mosaic_downloader([11 17], path='/Users/cgreene/Documents/data/ITS_LIVE') 
```

## Tip
To explore what data are available, check out [https://its-live-data.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html](https://its-live-data.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html).  

# Author & Citation Info
The MATLAB functions in this repo and this documentation were written by Chad A. Greene of NASA/JPL. [The NASA MEaSUREs ITS\_LIVE project](https://its-live.jpl.nasa.gov/) is by Alex S. Gardner and the ITS\_LIVE team. If you use ITS\_LIVE v2 velocity data, please cite: 

Gardner, A. S., Greene, C. A., Kennedy, J. H., Fahnestock, M. A., Liukis, M., López, L. A., Lei, Y., Scambos, T. A., and Dehecq, A.: ITS_LIVE global glacier velocity data in near real time, EGUsphere [preprint], [https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-392](https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-392), 2025.
